so you drive along a desert road
when suddenly you feel a bump like you
hit something
you stop the car and look in the
rearview mirror nothing
weird you get out of the car and take a
good look on the road
and that's when you see it a large black
and white
bug is hurrying across the road it has a
slightly
flattened shape as if wait did you just
drive your car over it and it's still
alive
yep that's the ironclad beetle for you
these hardy little fellas have an
astonishingly sturdy carapace
that protects them from incredible harm
even from a car at full speed
the bug shell is strong enough to
withstand tons of pressure
and what's inside the beetle is flexible
and won't easily be crushed either
even if you take a hammer and try to
drive a needle through its body
chances are high you'll just end up with
a broken needle
and a hail and hearty bug
cockroaches are another species of
survivors although a regular slipper is
their worst nightmare
they can withstand crazy conditions they
aren't much afraid of fire
and can hold their breath for about 40
minutes under water
a cockroach can also go without food and
water for about nine days
so even if you take everything edible
from your house
and move to another place for a week the
pest will still greet you when you get
back
hey how was your trip did you get us
anything
a tiger moth is so called because of its
striped black and orange pattern
but it has a superpower allowing it to
avoid its nemesis
the bat bats have weak eyesight and
navigate with the help of
ultrasonic waves they basically scream
at stuff and listen to the echo to find
their way around
obstacles and hunt for food tiger moths
have learned to listen to the ultrasound
clicks
and even produce their own to confuse
the predators
in one experiment a tiger moth was
placed in a dark and closed space with
three beds
the insect got out of it unscathed the
bats just couldn't find it
the tiny humble frog hopper is the
living proof that whatever humans invent
they can't beat nature to it these bugs
can leap the distance of 100 times their
body length
it's almost like fleas adult insects
have spring-like legs that allow them
such
feats but young frog hoppers have little
structures in their hind legs that look
exactly like
gears when they want to leave they need
to bring their legs in sync with each
other
and that's where the gears help them
when youngsters grow up
and stop molting the gears are lost
being unneeded any longer
p aphids might be small and unassuming
but they
are in fact living solar batteries they
feed on plants and seem to have learned
a few tricks from their lunch
unlike most living creatures who get
them from food aphids produce their own
carotenoids
pigments useful for immune system it so
happens that plants
also use it to process sunlight and
aphids have mastered this trick as well
they can get energy directly from the
sun and go about their day
even without food if needed
you don't see it all around the world
and sometimes swat at it
but you don't know that the creature you
want to get rid of
is absolutely special the annoying house
fly has
incredible eyes and sense of speed its
blinkers allow it to see
everything around it 360 degrees no
matter how quiet and careful you are
they can see you creeping in on it with
that clumsy swatter of yours
missed again as for the sense of speed
flies feel everything in kind of slow
motion
so no wonder they fly away so fast when
you want to hit them
bite the dust human arachnophobia anyone
well if there's any place to hide from
spiders it's a pool of water isn't it
and not if you're facing a
fishing spider it's a hefty beast that
can reach the size of your palm
and its name is not accidental its
favorite dish is
fish the spider catches its prey by
diving underwater
but its actual super power is the
ability to run on its surface
it creates small pockets of air with its
feet that push the arachnid up
not letting it drown and when the spider
needs to go down
it just stops and dives one more spider
you don't want to mess with
aren't they all is darwin's bark spider
it's not as big and menacing as its
fishing relative
but it just loves spinning its web and
when it does
it goes all in bark spiders are famous
for throwing lines of their web across
rivers and streams and scientists are
still not sure how they do that
what's worse this web pound for pound is
25 times stronger than steel it's also
very flexible
and can be bent however you like even
when it's a thick rope
termites are the scare of all things
wooden and of ants too
when ants encroach on their territory
termites go
out of their notorious mounds and give
back more than they receive
the insects are basically blind but
their heads are equipped with natural
spitfire
they spit acid at their foes driving
them away
quicker than when they got there don't
even think about getting your fingers in
the way of that acidic stream
it's a really unpleasant feeling
speaking of spitting as we were
bombardier beetles are the best at that
a look of this
bug is menacing enough but when it feels
threatened
it will give out a large pop and spray
the enemy with boiling hot liquid
there's a chamber inside the bug's belly
that keeps two substances for that
when they mix before spring they react
with each other and quickly get
really hot even birds are in big trouble
if they get into the beetle's way
and other insects simply have no chance
against it
parasitoid waps are mine controllers of
the insect world
they lay eggs inside other insects
especially roaches
and bend them to their will the insect
becomes placid
and just lies there until the eggs hatch
and when they do
the wasps little ones take over control
of its body
and make it do their every bidding kind
of terrifying if you ask me
dung beetles have no psychic powers but
they don't need them
they're the most powerful heavy lifters
in the world their favorite expression
is
been there done that no really a single
dung beetle can haul a load a thousand
times its own weight
it's like a person lifting 10 elephants
these bugs need their namesake substance
to eat and
lay eggs into yum and they differ
between each other
the most popular ones are rollers but
there are also
tunnelers and dwellers rollers are the
ones that make the famous balls
tunnelers dig right into the ground when
they find food
and dwellers feel just fine sitting on
top of their fines
and not moving anywhere king of the hill
if you will
see that beautiful pink flower it's an
orchid
and that similar one next to it it's an
orchid mantis
these tricky insects have mastered the
art of mimicry to
excellence they can hide in plain sight
and even the sharp eyes of
birds of prey often can't recognize them
for what they are
mantis sits absolutely still waiting for
its prey to come closer
and when it does the predator lunges at
it at my numbing speed
after lunch the mantis assumes its
original position
and waits for the next unwary insect to
come by
desert locust is a bane of many crops
because it comes in thousands at a time
and eats everything that grows on land
one locust can't do much harm because
it's just an
overgrown grasshopper but they typically
don't travel alone
locusts are often pictured flying in a
swirling cloud
over a field and landing all at once
that picture is pretty correct
these loud insects can fly dozens of
miles at a time without rest
and they fly quite fast but the most
incredible thing about them
is that locusts can keep up the same
speed for the whole duration of their
flight
unlike birds that depend on the wind
locusts can adjust their wings
and control the amount of lift they
generate this helps them use the wind to
their advantage
and not be thwarted by it okay time for
me to bug out
bye